[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: When it
comes to health and fitness,
it seems like we're all
looking for that magic bullet.
While it's unlikely there is
one universal solution for all
of us, the world of technology
is bringing some devices
that nearly are a magic bullet.
One such device was brought to
my attention through a friend.
After following up on
the story a little bit,
I think we may have
found something
that might benefit
most if not all of us.
Dr. Ian Gainor is with us to
tell us all about the device.
First of all, what's
the name of it?
>>IAN GAINOR: The ZAAZ
Whole Body Vibration unit.
>>REGINA: Whole
Body Vibration unit,
and we're going to be
showing demonstrations
in just a little bit
and see how it works,
but before any of
that, I really thought
it would be nice to get to know
you a little bit so they know
why you're here, and we're
talking to you specifically
because you have
quite a rich history
in the field of
chiropractic, but far
beyond the borders
of just chiropractic.
So tell us a little
bit about yourself.
>>GAINOR: OK My dad was
in the Canadian Army
in the second war,
and he was injured.
He was paralyzed,
and there was nothing
the medical community
could do for him.
Someone suggested that
he see a chiropractor.
He said, "What can they do?"
They said, "I don't know."
He went to see the chiropractor.
He started getting results
in the second visit.
The feeling started come back
on his-- left side of his body
was paralyzed.
The feeling started coming back.
He got excited.
He says, I want to
do this for others.
I went to chiropractic
college with my dad
when I was a little
boy, and he took mom
and I and we went
to Davenport, Iowa
and went to
chiropractic college.
I was injured while I was there.
I was in a car accident.
My back was injured.
That went to a chronic
weakness in my low back.
The chiropractor could
keep it under control.
But the reason I
bring those in is
to tell you that I look
at things differently
as the chiropractor.
I look at things differently
than the medical community
does.
Now, I'm going to ask
you a question now.
>>REGINA: M-hm.
>>GAINOR: M-hm.
>>REGINA: What is that?
>>GAINOR: This is my model.
The medical profession
has different specialties.
They've got orthopedic surgeons,
mainstream OR, gynecologist.
They've got-- you tell me three.
>>REGINA: Ophthalmology.
>>GAINOR: Ophthalmologists.
They look at the eyes.
Heart specialist.
OK.
Oncologists--
>>REGINA: Oncology.
>>GAINOR: --just study cancer.
OK.
The orthopedic surgeons
just do joints.
There's podiatrists
that just do feet.
OK?
They look at those areas of the
body, they specialize in that,
and they're really
good at what they do.
In the holistic profession,
chiropractors, acupuncturists,
naturopaths, herbalists,
nutritionists,
they look at things differently.
They look at how the body
fits together and works--
>>REGINA: Whoa.
That's very cool.
>>GAINOR: --and works
as a whole together.
>>REGINA: Nice prop.
I like that.
So they look at
things differently.
OK?
So the fitness
community is somewhat
like the medical community.
The yoga specializes
in flexibility,
and the weights specialize
in toning or shaping
certain parts.
>>REGINA: Building mass.
>>GAINOR: Building mass.
The runners, they all specialize
differently, and what I found
is the Whole Body
Vibration unit that ZAAZ
brings to market
affects the whole body
and how it all fits
and works together.
And that's critical
to your introduction
where you talked about--
can it help everybody?
And that's where
I'm looking at it
from the holistic perspective
of how the body works
and seeing benefits for
children, benefits for fitness.
We'll do a demo with some--
>>REGINA: Fit people.
>>GAINOR: The
young and the buff.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: OK.
We'll do that.
And then I see benefits
for Granny Goose,
but I don't see
because of the way
you can control the intensity
by putting your feet together
and apart, if you can walk,
you can get on this machine.
I don't go into
the named condition
that some people ask me about.
Some people say, what about
this, or what about that?
And I go I don't know
about those things.
>>REGINA: Well, you
didn't know about it
when you started with
this thing either.
And so your background,
you studied a lot
of different modalities
beyond just chiropractic,
really looking at the holistic
kind of footprint of health.
You went into kinesiology--
>>GAINOR: Naturopathy.
>>REGINA: --naturopathy,
many, many other modalities.
You studied a lot of
things besides chiropractic
for really a life-long passion.
>>GAINOR: Life long.
>>REGINA: Life long passion.
>>GAINOR: And it's a lot of fun.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and it is.
And also I know from
talking with you previously,
your main thing is
you really don't
like seeing people suffer.
You're truly a-- I
won't say a healer,
but a facilitator with
a compassionate heart.
It seems to me that's
what's driving you.
So I just wanted to
say that because I'm
very impressed with
that trait in you.
>>GAINOR: Thank you.
>>REGINA: But how
did you specifically
become aware of this?
What happened?
>>GAINOR: Let me--
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>GAINOR: go to that.
You talked about
the word "healer".
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: When I went
to chiropractic college,
I didn't know what
I wanted to do,
but I went to
chiropractic college,
and the philosophy
instructor was as boring
as the instructor in
"Ferris Bueller's Day Off."
>>REGINA: I think most people
that saw it can relate.
>>GAINOR: They can.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: OK.
This guy was really bad,
and one day-- and it
was early, early
semester, first year, he
says let me tell
you how this works.
Let me paint the big picture.
And he says now-- and I can't
say it as boring as him.
He says when the egg
and sperm got together
in your mother's womb,
your intelligence
took over and formed your
body according to God's plan.
And I went, whoa.
He's got my attention.
And then he says, if you
have the intelligence
to form that body, you
to heal it as long as the
intelligence can communicate
with the body and the body
with the intelligence.
Then you heal it yourself.
As chiropractors, we work
on the nervous system
to facilitate that process.
>>REGINA: M-hm.
>>GAINOR: Well all of the
other holistic modalities
that I mentioned or professions
that I mentioned, basically,
that's what their philosophy is.
I found that this
compliments that.
It facilitates how
the intelligence
communicates with the body.
And it's best demonstrated with
Geriatric Joe who has trouble,
he struggles to get
out of his chair.
>>REGINA: Oh, and I want to get
to an anecdote about that you
just shared with me off camera
that was amazing in a bit.
But continue on what you were
saying before we do that.
>>GAINOR: But Geriatric
Joe has trouble getting out
of his chair, and he
shuffles his feet.
The reason he
shuffles his feet is
because he doesn't
have the balance
to pick up his back foot
and set it down here.
He's going to topple
in that amount of time.
And that's why he graduates
from the shuffle, to the cane,
to the walker, to the chair
as things deteriorate.
The oscillation
process on this resets
the neurological
circuits from the feet
to the brain, the occipital
lobe, the back of the brain.
It resets those
circuits and reminds
all of the components
along the way:
this is what we're supposed
to do to keep her balance.
And I've put hundreds of
people on with balance issues
and seen a measurable
improvement
in two or three minutes
99% of the time.
>>REGINA: OK now--
>>GAINOR: That's exciting.
>>REGINA: OK.
It is exciting, and there
are many other things
you're using it for.
I want to go back now to
when you first found out
about it, because it's
an interesting story,
and some of the people you
put on it-- and you said,
I don't know what it does.
Just get on it and try it.
So how did you first
come in contact with it
and come to appreciate
its benefits?
>>GAINOR: I had a sprained ankle
from basketball at college.
A lot of years later-- I can't
count that high-- it went out
on me, but the chiropractor
always dealt with it.
Whenever I went out, the
chiropractor dealt with it.
Well this time, the
chiropractor wasn't helping.
I was hobbling into
his house to see him.
His wife said, "Ian, come
and get on my machine."
I said, "I'm really busy."
She said, "Shut up.
Get on the machine."
I said, "Yes dear."
I've been trained.
I got on the machine.
I said, "What does it do?"
She says, "I don't know.
It helps people."
I stood there for 10
minutes talking with her.
I got off the machine.
The swelling was gone.
The pain was gone and
mobility was restored.
I said I'll take it
and took it home.
My wife said, "What's that?"
I said, "It's an ankle machine."
She said, "OK."
>>REGINA: Blind
leading the blind.
>>GAINOR: Well, yeah.
I mean, I did not see any
other benefits for it,
because I read a
brochure, and I looked
at those claims that are--
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
>>GAINOR: Some of
these-- yeah right.
Well, I may have used a little
more colorful term than that,
but we get the idea.
OK?
And then as patients were
coming in, I would say,
I've got this new machine.
Do you want to try it?
And I had a 75-year-old guy
who couldn't stand up straight.
I couldn't help him.
I fired him as a patient.
He got on the machine.
He stood up straight in two
minutes for the first time
in 15 years.
And I went, holy cow.
I'm not that good.
So he bought the machine
and started using it.
I continued to work with him,
and between the two of us,
we got him-- he had to learn
how to walk all over again.
>>REGINA: Because it had
been how many years since he
had walked?
>>GAINOR: 15 years.
>>REGINA: 15 years.
>>GAINOR: Since
he'd walked upright.
He was antalgic.
His body bent over
about like that.
>>REGINA: So that
was pretty profound.
>>GAINOR: That was profound.
His wife didn't think she
needed it, but she got on it.
She was a rubenesque
75-year-old,
and she came to me four months
later and she goes, "Doc.
Doc."
He was on the table,
and she goes, "Doc."
She stands up and goes, "I lost
three dress sizes on my waist."
>>REGINA: From that?
>>GAINOR: From that.
>>REGINA: Because she
was totally sedentary
other than doing that?
>>GAINOR: Other than doing that.
>>REGINA: Wow.
Did she go on a diet
at the same time?
>>GAINOR: Nope.
Just that.
And then she says, about a
month later, she goes, "Doc.
Doc.
I lost my turkey waddle."
>>REGINA: Nothing like
vanity to motivate a person.
>>GAINOR: Well, she
was 75, but how do you
lose your turkey waddle?
I mean, I'm going--
>>REGINA: Usually, you
go under the knife.
I suppose.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Well--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Not pleasant, huh?
>>GAINOR: Not pleasant.
>>REGINA: OK.
So all right.
Now, we have a lot of
these kinds of stories.
We have some wonderful demos--
>>GAINOR: We do.
>>REGINA: --that we have already
taped just a few minutes ago
so you can see how this works.
But what I want to do is
get into the technology
itself for a little bit,
the roots of it going back
into Russia, NASA, and so forth,
and bring us forward on that.
>>GAINOR: Back in the
'60s, space program.
Russia and America were
competing with one another.
OK?
I'm a little Canadian
boy watching this race,
and it was quite interesting.
But the Russians were up
in space for like 400 days
and the Americans were
only in space for 90.
That was as long
as they could go.
And I saw pictures of them
carrying the astronauts
or cosmonauts, I don't
which, out of the capsules.
But the Russians
developed this technology
to build up bone
density and muscle
mass because that's
what they lost in space.
Hm.
That's what Geriatric Joe loses
in his easy chair in today's
society, so they
built 'em up for that.
But the Russians were
leading in that space race.
And I'm sitting there,
and I may have been young,
but I knew those damn
Russians were cheating.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: And this is
what they were doing.
The iron wall came
down in '89, '90.
Iron curtain.
And about '95, NASA got
ahold of the technology,
and it started making
inroads into Western society.
And there's different
models that have come out.
There's three different
kinds of technology with it.
>>REGINA: Well, didn't it go
into the athletic industry
also in Russia?
I mean, I read somewhere the
prima ballerinas were using it.
They were using it for the
top performers in the Bolshoi
and other ballets, companies.
>>GAINOR: Right.
They took it through the space
program to the sports program.
>>REGINA: OK.
And what were they
finding by way
of results in
sports at that time?
>>GAINOR: They were
doing very well.
They were winning gold medals.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I remember.
>>GAINOR: Yeah.
>>REGINA: M-hm.
>>GAINOR: Annoying isn't it?
>>REGINA: And so
this was commonly
used in their training.
>>GAINOR: In Eastern Europe--
>>REGINA: Eastern
Europe and Russia?
>>GAINOR: --and Russia.
That was.
It was just part
of their program.
They saw the benefits for it.
And that's what it
came over here as,
the benefits for fitness,
the fitness industry.
And the golf
industry has used it.
Football has used it.
I don't know what other sports
programs-- some of the colleges
are using it for their athletes
for different applications.
But as you'll see in the
demo, the fitness guy
can see that,
right away, that it
complement whatever he's doing.
He can keep doing it, but
it'll make him better.
>>REGINA: Well now, when you're
looking at it from a fitness
point of view and that
is, in fact, in a moment,
we're going to go
to that where we
had one of our fellow
employees here,
Brock, who works out
almost every day.
Right?
>>GAINOR: Every day.
>>REGINA: Just about every day
for an hour, hour and a half
even.
And so he's obviously very fit.
He's just under 40 years old,
so he's kind of a prime specimen
already.
But we're going to
see in just a moment
that even he was really
feeling the workout
within a minute
or two doing this
because it engages the
muscles differently.
Before we show
that clip, tell us
what it's actually doing
by way of engaging muscles.
It's an oscillating movement.
>>GAINOR: You can see
when we do the demo
that I have him lean forward
and that I have him turn.
Well, just to go back to
the anatomical reasons
and why this works, I brought
my handy-dandy spinal model
with me here.
>>REGINA: OK.
I like the science of it all.
>>GAINOR: What the
oscillation does,
is it rocks the spine like
this so that it activates
the muscles around the spine.
So I'm the chiropractor, and I'm
looking at this, and I'm going,
this strengthens the low back.
This is the core for
90% of the problems
that come in to see
the chiropractor.
If the low back is stronger,
they don't come in dying,
and I can do more in less time.
OK?
They're happier.
So the rocking motion
literally pumps those discs.
These discs make up
one third of our height
from our head to our tailbone.
These discs have blood supply
that atrophies at about age 22.
When it atrophies, these discs,
as a rule, start to atrophy,
and as they do,
that's when we start
to shrivel up and
lose our height.
I had been hanging upside
down as the chiropractor
to keep my disc pumped.
Now, I'm not saying it
for vanity purposes,
I just wanted to be clear.
>>REGINA: You haven't
lost any of your height.
>>GAINOR: Actually,
when I got the machine.
I came home with
the ankle machine,
we had just moved into another
house that was built in 1945.
Building standards
were 6 foot 6".
I'm 6' 5 and 1/2".
Two years after we
moved into the house,
I noticed I'm
brushing the doorways
as I walk through the doorways.
>>REGINA: By using
the incline device.
>>GAINOR: No.
>>REGINA: No?
By using what?
>>GAINOR: By using the T-Zone
and having my discs pumped--
>>REGINA: Oh, this machine?
>>GAINOR: This machine
creates extra circulation
around the disc,
so by osmosis, I'm
getting more nutrients into my
disc, and I'm getting taller.
>>REGINA: So you
grew an inch or so?
>>GAINOR: No.
About half an inch.
>>REGINA: Half an inch?
>>GAINOR: But it was just
restored, the half an inch
that I'd lost.
I hadn't lost much because
I'd done a lot of things
to take care of it.
Now, my youngest son, 27, 28,
the first year he used this,
he grew an inch from the discs.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>GAINOR: Interesting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: Now, not many
people are interested in that.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
You think not.
You can tell my stepmom.
She's so tiny now.
You know, the reason I was
really jazzed about this
is because after my friend
Susan told me about it,
we went over to one
of the ZAAZ Studios
where they have the
machines, where you can--
it's like $3 or something.
You go on for a session
of up to 15 minutes.
And my husband Scott
went on, and he's
had lower back-- he had a couple
of serious accidents and falls
when he was younger and has
had constant lower back pain.
And after he got off
of it, he's like, huh.
I don't have any back pain.
Well, that went on
for quite a while.
I can't remember now whether
it was a week or two, just
in that one
10-minute session, he
didn't have any more back pain.
Now over time, it
started creeping
back in again, which I
suppose would be natural
because he didn't
follow up with it.
But that was really, for him--
>>GAINOR: Dramatic.
>>REGINA: --dramatic
to not be in pain.
OK.
So I think what we
should do is now
go to you working with Brock and
showing how the machine works
so people can get an idea
of the motion, the speeds,
the way in which you
engage muscle groups.
So we're going to go ahead and
take a look at what we just
taped a few minutes ago.
>>GAINOR: OK, Brock.
I'm trying to demonstrate to you
the benefits, you the fitness
guy, the benefits of adding
this to your regimen.
>>BROCK: OK.
>>GAINOR: So you have-- how much
time do you spend in the gym?
>>BROCK: About an
hour, hour and a half.
>>GAINOR: Hour and
a half every day?
>>BROCK: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: Ouch.
That's too much for me.
I've got a three-pound
weight here.
Can I have you hold those?
The reason I want
you to do this is I
wanted to exaggerate
what's going on for you.
You put it out there.
You're standing straight.
Do a little pelvic tilt for me.
That's it.
See how that activates the core?
>>BROCK: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: The three big muscles?
Pelvic sling?
OK.
Turn.
Keep a broom handle
across here and turn.
OK.
Now, see how it wants
to stop right there?
And look over your shoulder.
See what you're
pointing out there?
Feel how this is
working your core?
>>BROCK: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: OK.
We're working the
big three muscles,
and we're working the obliques.
How much workout do you get
on your obliques in the gym?
>>BROCK: Oh, a
day or two a week.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Looking over there, you're
pointing at the flower pot.
OK.
Turn back here again.
What changed?
>>BROCK: More rotation.
>>GAINOR: More rotation.
That's-- I mean, yoga people
are really into the flexibility
more than the weight people.
>>BROCK: Right.
>>GAINOR: But I mean,
you can appreciate
in that amount of time,
a change in flexibility.
OK.
Pelvic tilt again.
Bend forward.
Hold your hands up here.
Pull your belly way up.
Arch your back.
OK.
Any activity going
on in your abs?
>>BROCK: Yes.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Push my hands up.
Any more activity
going on in your abs?
I'm sorry.
I can't quite hear you there?
>>BROCK: Yes.
Yes.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Let go for me.
OK.
Standing up there.
We can exaggerate what's
going on in the body
with a little bit of
weight and the repetitions.
This repeats multiple
times a second.
We can change the speeds.
It's variable.
But it's gentle enough that I
can put Granny Goose on here,
and it's strong enough
that you can get a workout,
and we really like
that flexibility.
So you can work the shoulders.
You can work the abs,
the core muscles.
You can work the obliques.
OK.
Let me have you do
this, and do a squat.
OK.
Now I want you to slowly come
up and slowly go back down.
OK.
What's different about
doing a squat like this?
>>BROCK: Shifting
back and forth.
My balance.
>>GAINOR: OK.
It makes all the other
stabilizer muscles work.
It's not just a linear thing.
Makes a big difference.
OK?
>>REGINA: All right.
Well, Brock was sweating.
When he finish up
and was walking out,
he said he definitely felt it.
He was feeling the abs.
He was feeling it
all the way through,
and I see you still have
our little spinal model
in your hands.
So are you going to
show us something
about the dynamic of what
was happening with him there?
He was getting a workout.
>>GAINOR: He was
getting workout.
And there's two things
I want to go over there.
Number one is I had him,
when he was doing the plank,
I had him straighten his back.
If the belly is hanging
down, what happens
is the weight is
carried across here
and nothing happens
with the abs.
If the abs are pulled up and
engaged, it loosens this up,
but it really tones those abs.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GAINOR: It's an
amazing ab workout.
It's an amazing calorie burner.
I mean, if he can be sweating
in three, four minutes,
well he was doing
an aerobic workout,
>>REGINA: Yeah.
If you're sweating and you
have elevated heart rate,
you're-- that's aerobic.
>>GAINOR: So was Lauren.
OK?
Now, if we put
Granny Goose on there
and we've got her
feet close together,
it doesn't take much to
elevate her heart rate.
That becomes an aerobic
workout for her,
but she's not going to do near
the work that Brock would do.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GAINOR: OK I
mean, I'm not going
to do the work that Brock does.
My muscles don't go there.
But my muscles do work,
and it takes a lot of work
to carry this big body around.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
6 foot 6" of you.
So that starts bringing in
a lot of other subjects,
and we've just been looking
at the fitness end of it,
but there are also a lot
of beneficial effects
to the overall
health of the body.
And one thing we were
talking about off camera--
and I'd love for you to
share this anecdote--
was that we have more lymphatic
fluids running through
than actual blood.
And that case, that we're
talking about lymphatic
drainage I take it.
>>GAINOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, if you'll tell
me about this one lady
that you encountered who
didn't like chiropractors.
You told me about
her off camera,
and what happened, because
that was rather startling.
>>GAINOR: The lymph is that--
the guys know what the lymph is
because they fall and get a
carpet burn or a scrape where
it's not bleeding, but it's
oozing that clear liquid.
That's the lymph, and it
runs through our body.
It's extracellular, and it
carries the toxins and wastes
out and keeps the nutrient
supply to the cell.
Well, sometimes in our
sedentary lifestyle,
things get congested
in the lymph system,
and we notice it because
the lymph nodes are
in the axilla, the groin,
and the neck, the elbow,
and the knee, those five areas.
But these are the two
biggest-- main areas.
And the lymph goes
through the body
and it comes into the thoracic
cavity to be processed,
but it has to go
through the lymph nodes.
And when we're-- mumps is an
example of lymph node swelling
and protecting the whole body
by keeping the problem isolated.
Well, somehow this
lady had got--
>>REGINA: Just like a cyst?
>>GAINOR: --congestion
in the lymph node.
>>REGINA: Not a cyst, really?
>>GAINOR: We'll
just call it a lump.
>>REGINA: A lump.
OK.
>>GAINOR: --for whatever reason.
It was just a hard spot.
She showed me the
hard spot in the lymph
node in the tissue here.
So I put her on the machine--
>>REGINA: --which usually
is very scary to people
when they find that.
>>GAINOR: Usually very scary.
Understandably so.
Because--
>>REGINA: You don't know.
>>GAINOR: --I've
dealt with patients
that have had the surgery and
taken that off and the health
issues go on for the rest
of their lives after that.
So what I did was, I
put her on a stool.
So she was sitting
on the machine--
>>REGINA: On a little
stool, on the machine.
>>GAINOR: --on a little
stool, on the platform.
And it's going like
this, and what that does
is it makes all the
water molecules vibrate.
Like if you put this water
glass on a stereo speaker,
all the water-- you
can see it vibrate.
Well, that's what's happening
when you sit on the Whole Body
Vibration Machine.
But if you sit there and
then steer the lymph,
you could move it like
this, just gently.
So if I want to bring it into
the thoracic cavity or chest
cavity, I just do it like this,
and it's just a light massage.
Well, I've had responses from
people that have done that.
I showed them, I said
try this, try this,
and age spots and liver
spots are disappearing
because the nutrients are
being replaced by new lymph,
by increased circulation,
and so the skin
is getting measurably healthier.
>>REGINA: Well, what
happened with this lady?
>>GAINOR: Well,
this lady had a lump
about the size of the end of
my thumb and about that hard.
And so I did the
demonstration, and I showed her
how she could move the lymph.
She could steer
the lymph while it
was vibrating, while the
molecules were vibrating--
>>REGINA: --while she was
sitting on the device.
>>GAINOR: She's
It's going very fast, and it's
very relaxing when you do that.
So we did that for
three or four minutes
and stopped and
talked for a minute,
and lymph starts moving
when you do that.
But it was unexpected, but we
went and looked for the lump
and the lump was gone.
>>REGINA: I was kind of
shocking when you told me that.
>>GAINOR: I was shocked too.
I don't expect it to stay
gone if she goes back
to her sedentary ways,
if she does something
like this on a daily basis,
I expect it to stay gone.
>>REGINA: So she was
shocked because she wasn't
a big fan of chiropractic
to begin with,
no less your device.
So she was shocked.
Yeah.
>>GAINOR: She was shocked.
Yes.
>>REGINA: And so OK.
Now that brings the subject
of circulation up, in general.
I mean, when you're
talking about people
have sedentary
lifestyles, obviously,
the circulation is
usually not that good.
We get into things
like diabetes.
We get into what happens--
>>GAINOR: Let's talk
about general circulation.
The rocking motion,
we saw on the demo
how the rocking motion
affected the three biggest
muscles in the body.
The core, the muscles
of core stability,
doing this exaggerates
the stresses here then
the muscles have to respond.
When they respond,
they burn calories,
but they don't just burn
calories, they burn oxygen.
We have an oxygen sensor in
our brain that says, hello.
We need more oxygen.
And what that does
is it triggers
and makes us breathe deeper.
So as soon as we
breathe deeper, that
triggers the heart
to beat faster
to get the oxygen and the
nutrients to the body.
When the oxygen and
nutrients go to the body--
the brain and the body-- it
makes the blood vessels dilate
that carry the oxygen
and nutrients there.
We're working harder so those
blood vessels, by doing that,
have to dilate.
That dilation makes
them more flexible.
That prevents hardening of
the arteries or reverses,
or hardening of the attitudes.
It changes things.
>>REGINA: So you've
seen a reversal
of hardening of the
arteries with this.
>>GAINOR: I've got
no way to measure.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: I've seen
increased circulation.
>>REGINA: Increased circulation.
>>GAINOR: So I just happened
to bring an oxygen meter,
and it measures the periphery,
the amount of oxygen
in the periphery of the blood.
It's just a little
medical device.
It's just a handy little thing,
and it measures and shows
how much-- it shows, looking
at that, you see 95%.
>>REGINA: 96%.
>>GAINOR: --96% oxygen
at the periphery.
I measure people and then
put them on the machine
and then measure again.
In 95% of the time
there's an improvement
in oxygen at the periphery.
That's a good thing.
You used the diabetes word.
>>REGINA: Just because it's
becoming almost an epidemic now
for a variety of reasons.
Yeah.
>>GAINOR: I think the
definition of epidemic
has changed so that
it isn't an epidemic.
OK?
The yardstick has
become more flexible.
But it's circulation to
the lower extremities.
My wife's uncle had his
leg amputated at the knee.
>>REGINA: I've seen ulcerations
and that sort of thing.
>>GAINOR: Ulcerations
that don't get better.
>>REGINA: So how
does this affect it?
I assume, if this
increases circulation,
you're definitely
lowering the risk
of having that kind of
stagnancy in the limbs.
Right?
>>GAINOR: Well,
people don't ask me
the question as
the chiropractor,
but I see it-- when I see
someone, I see the sore,
I'm not going to bring it up
if there's a sore on your leg.
That's not my place
to bring it up.
But I see the improvements
when I see you
again in a month, two
months, three months.
I've seen ulcerations,
pre-ulcerations where
the skin hadn't broken, go
from here to here in a day,
and I got phone reports
from these people
because I travel around to
different States doing this.
I get phone reports,
it cleared up.
The ulceration had
been five years.
It healed.
I get stories like that.
That's impressive.
>>REGINA: It's very impressive.
So you talked about this
in the very beginning,
and I think it might have
been when you were speaking
with Brock when he
was on the device,
and that is about the
notion of osteoporosis.
Before we get into pain
management, but osteoporosis.
>>GAINOR: OK.
One more anecdote about
diabetes before I leave.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>GAINOR: Diabetic neuropathy
is the other thing.
There's a loss of sensation.
It starts in the toes, the
feet, the ankle, the leg.
It moves up.
And that neuropathy
or loss of sensation
is part of a balance
problem, but it's
part of a circulation problem.
It's part of a nervous
system problem.
But I have, in the
last 4 and 1/2 years,
working with this
manufacturer, I
have seen demonstrated to
hundreds and hundreds of people
that we've measured
diabetic neuropathy
and seen a measurable
improvement 99%
of the time in two
or three minutes.
Well, the ones that have
got real excited about it
and got the machines are
phoning and reporting,
Doc, it's cleared up.
It's staying away.
You're hurting your practice.
People aren't going to
come back to see you
because it clears up.
And I'm going, that's what
I. I want you out the door.
>>REGINA: But what does it
do to the primary aspects
of blood sugar and so forth?
I mean, does it affect
because of the circulation,
increased oxygen
supply and so forth?
Does it actually
affect then core issue
of diabetes, the
blood sugar levels?
>>GAINOR: Well, we're
talking about fitness.
We're talking about
exercising the three biggest
muscles of the
body, and then we're
talking about exercising
all the stabilizer muscles.
>>REGINA: So you'd have to
say it has to impact it.
>>GAINOR: Then we're talking
about burning calories.
We're talking about
increased oxygen uptake.
increased circulation.
>>REGINA: In other words, duh.
OK.
All right.
>>GAINOR: I was
too polite to say.
>>REGINA: Duh.
All right.
Now, another surprising
area I was reading about,
I was reading some
of the research,
and I was reading this
on Dr. Mercola's site.
I mean, there are
a lot of people
that are talking about
this technology out there
and using different
versions of it,
but they were talking about
fibromyalgia and the pain
relief that some
people were getting.
Now, why and how does that work?
I mean, a lot of people
have severe fibromyalgia,
which I've interviewed
people that
say that's kind of a garbage
bucket diagnosis for pain,
in general.
>>GAINOR: There I go.
I was too polite to say.
>>REGINA: So you have this
kind of undiagnosed pain
in the body.
You'd think that that
would be too harsh.
>>GAINOR: When I first went
on the road for the company
doing demos, agents would
set up demos for me,
and I was doing a demo
in a health food store,
and I was asked that question.
And a lady came
shuffling forward.
What will it do for me?
I don't know.
I've got fibromyalgia.
"I don't know what it
will do for you," I said,
"but I know that there's
18 trigger points
and you've got to have 11 of
them for the American Arthritic
Society to diagnose
you as fibromyalgia."
She says, "I've had it for 11
years, and I've got all 18."
I said, "Let's measure one."
And so I mean, it's tricky
in a health food store,
in a big group to
find a measurement,
so she showed me the
side of her thigh.
She said, that's really sore.
And I said, OK,
can I touch that?
So I just touched her
thigh, and I really
know how to be
gentle with someone,
and I just lightly touched her
thigh, and she goes like this.
And she's in pain.
And I said, "There's
a measurement.
Let's put you on the machine.
OK?"
We stand there. "We'll put
your feet close together.
You're going to oscillate.
I want you to turn like this
because I'm the chiropractor.
I want to put a torque on that
spine, and affect those discs,
and I want to affect the
nerve roots that come out
from there that
go down your legs.
But I'm also, if you're
torquing like that,
torquing this way will
cause an internal rotation
on this thigh, and this
knee, and this ankle,
and then turning the other
way, external rotation on that.
And that affects those
muscles and the nerves,
and that increases muscle
responses and circulation,
and stimulates the body
to function better.
I don't know what it's
going to do for you."
So I put her on
for three minutes.
She's fragile.
I don't want to go longer
than that because I
don't want her to overdo it.
I take her off, and I feel her,
like I can feel the difference.
Now, when I first felt
the leg, it was like that.
When I felt it the second
time, it was fleshy.
>>REGINA: More fluid.
>>GAINOR: It had
relaxed and changed.
So I knew that, and I went--
>>REGINA: --really
hard on her leg.
>>GAINOR: --really hard.
And she started to cry because
for the first time in like 17
years, she was out of pain.
She was so thrilled that I could
do that, and she didn't die.
I went, wow.
>>REGINA: So there's
one anecdote,
and I've read
about, like I said,
I was reading that
in some research.
It's proving to be pretty
effective with fibromyalgia.
Yeah.
Great.
>>GAINOR: I've seen that.
You talked about osteoporosis.
>>REGINA: Yes, I did.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Osteoporosis is a
loss of bone density.
That goes back to
the cosmonaut issue.
When they're
weightless in space,
the astronauts and
cosmonauts lose bone density.
Then we go to our Easy Boy
chairs, and the loss of motion
leads to--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We're supposedly have to
have that percussive effect
on our bodies by
walking or whatnot.
Right?
>>GAINOR: Walking.
OK.
But not just any walking.
Shopping is walking like this.
Brisk walking.
>>REGINA: I got ya.
>>GAINOR: --where your
feet are making a noise.
Brisk walking
creates what's known
as a piezoelectric effect, and
that piezoelectric effect goes
through all the
bones in the body.
I was reading a French study
where they use this technology.
Now, Geriatric Joe is going
to be interested in this
because to do a
dental implant today,
the jaw bone has to have a
certain amount of density
for that titanium to
hold the titanium screw
to put the implant on top.
If it's not dense enough, sorry.
We can't help you.
>>REGINA: Nothing to
hold on to, unless they
do bone grafting and all that.
>>GAINOR: This French
study showed an increase
in bone density in the jaw in 30
days from using the technology.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>GAINOR: That's impressive.
But that's the piezoelectric
effect calling for minerals
to be laid down to make
the bones stronger.
The sedentary lifestyle,
sitting in the Easy Boy
with the remote going
for five hours before bed
calls for the minerals to
be taken out of the bone,
for the bones to get weaker,
softer, more brittle.
That's where in 1970,
there was 100,000 Americans
broke their hip and fell.
Didn't fall and break their
hip, broke their hip and fell.
In 1990, it was a
quarter million,
and I have not seen
studies since then.
It was going downhill because
we're getting more sedentary.
The lifestyle.
We have more conveniences
than we used to.
That brisk walk
makes a difference.
The exercise bicycle
doesn't do it.
The swimming doesn't do it.
>>REGINA: Have to have
that percussive motion.
>>GAINOR: Right.
>>REGINA: Right.
The friction.
>>GAINOR: It does.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so the machine is
essentially supplanting that.
I mean it is doing that for you.
>>GAINOR: It's
doing that for you.
>>REGINA: Well now,
I mean, this is
another area is because like I
said in the beginning of this,
it's almost like it's a panacea
for everyone of some kind.
But in reality, it actually is
having these effects on people.
I mean, I don't really like
talking about product that
much, but it seems pretty
pervasive in its effects.
Yeah.
>>GAINOR: I brought the
first one of these in America
down to my mother.
Mom and dad retired
to Palm Springs.
She was 85.
She was falling daily.
>>REGINA: My dad's falling.
>>GAINOR: I took one
to her, and she was all
excited to see me because I
drove down from Canada to see
her, brought her a machine.
She comes shuffling in,
reaching on furniture.
She didn't need a cane.
She could touch furniture.
I put her on the machine for
two minutes, made her get off.
She wanted to go longer.
I wouldn't let her.
She didn't have another fall--
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>GAINOR: --until they took it
away from her in a old folks
home.
They wouldn't let
her use the machine.
But to stop falling, like
that, that's impressive.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Sure.
Because it's constant risk
of ending up in the ER
and then ending up somewhere
where you don't want
to be in bed for a
really long time.
You know what?
Now let's take it
to the other end.
Well, first of all,
the vanity part,
you have Lauren, our beautiful
Lauren here on the machine,
and you were showing there.
And we'll take a quick
look at that clip
of how it works on toning the
upper muscles, the upper body
muscles and arms in particular,
this part of the arm on women,
also the belly area.
So let's just take
a really quick peek
at what that looked like on
video just a few minutes ago.
>>GAINOR: OK, Lauren.
Let me show you a couple of
the benefits of using the ZAAZ
Whole Body Vibration Machine.
OK?
It has benefits for someone
like you who's obviously fit.
It has benefits for Granny
Goose who's sedentary,
and it has benefits for kids.
It's very flexible
in what it can do,
and I'll show you how you
can control the intensity so
that you don't need
to be concerned
when you put your
grandmother on here.
>>LAUREN: OK.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Let me have you step up on here.
>>LAUREN: All right.
>>GAINOR: It oscillates.
It goes right, left,
right, left, right, left.
It does it gently.
It's designed for bone
density and muscle mass.
I want to show you how
it will do the muscles,
and we'll talk about bone
density at another time.
I want it going fast enough
that you can feel it going.
And I want you to hold
a one-pound weight
to exaggerate what's going on.
OK?
>>LAUREN: All right.
>>GAINOR: Now, if you just stand
there relaxed like that, if I
feel the back of your arm
here, what muscle is this?
>>LAUREN: I'm
really bad at this.
>>GAINOR: OK.
It's called angel's wings.
>>LAUREN: OK.
>>GAINOR: And ladies that
wear short-sleeved shirts
are embarrassed with that.
OK?
>>LAUREN: Right.
Absolutely.
>>GAINOR: So what I want you
to do with your arms straight
is just pull your
arms straight back.
>>LAUREN: OK.
>>GAINOR: OK.
What happened here?
>>LAUREN: I feel a
tightening there.
>>GAINOR: It tightened up
pretty good, didn't it?
>>LAUREN: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: It activates
those muscles.
OK?
Those are the triceps, but
it activates those muscles
and can give you tone there
to prevent angel's wings.
OK?
So that's just one
little thing you can do.
Let me put your
hands up like this.
That exaggerates what's
going on through your core.
Now, notice how you pulled
your belly in as soon
as you pulled your hands up.
This is something
as a chiropractor,
we want to train people
to do, activate your core
before you pick up the box
so you don't hurt your back.
OK?
And no matter how slowly you say
it for men, they don't get it.
OK.
You can cut that out.
So you activated your
core, and the core
is your abs, your
glutes, and your quads.
OK, those are the three
biggest muscles on your body.
When you activate those just
standing here doing that,
those are activated.
I'm going to get you
to move your feet right
to the edge of the plate.
>>LAUREN: OK.
Both?
>>GAINOR: Both.
>>LAUREN: All right.
>>GAINOR: More.
What's different?
>>LAUREN: A lot more vibration.
>>GAINOR: A lot more vibration.
OK.
A lot more muscle response here.
>>LAUREN: Definitely.
>>GAINOR: Now.
These are the three biggest
muscles on the body.
Is anyone interested in
shaping those three areas?
>>LAUREN: Yes.
I am.
>>GAINOR: I think you're
pretty normal that way.
That's where most of us
are interested in shaping.
OK?
And that's a hard one to do.
This one is the
hardest one of all.
OK.
So what I'm going to get you
to do is hold that there.
Now, hold this and straighten
your knees, and bend forward.
>>LAUREN: OK.
>>GAINOR: Bend.
Bend.
Now, pull this up more.
More, more, more.
Arch your back.
Angry cat.
That's it.
Feel how that does more?
That's kundalini breath in yoga?
>>LAUREN: Yep.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Kundalini breath.
Pull this way up.
OK.
Now, put your hands
out here, and see
how that exaggerates what's
going on in your abs there?
>>LAUREN: Definitely.
Yeah.
I feel it.
>>GAINOR: They find that
standing ab crunches are more
powerful than
lying-on-the-floor ab crunches.
>>LAUREN: OK.
>>GAINOR: And on here, because
you're on at a higher speed,
you're getting like
20 reps a second,
and that's why a small weight
makes a difference here
and here.
Angry cat.
OK?
Now, stick your butt in the
air, and do the old horse.
OK?
>>LAUREN: That's hard.
>>GAINOR: Trick question.
OK.
It is hard.
Pull this up here.
We're interested in
activating the abs.
Pull it up, kundalini
breath again.
OK.
Those are really working.
That's burning calories.
That's what we want.
>>LAUREN: Yep.
>>GAINOR: Pull this up here.
Now, you work out
regularly how much?
>>LAUREN: Three times a week.
>>GAINOR: Three times a week.
For?
>>LAUREN: An hour.
>>GAINOR: An hour.
In the gym?
>>LAUREN: Usually
outside running.
>>GAINOR: Outside running.
OK.
You can see how this
would compliment
what you're doing with your run.
>>LAUREN: Definitely.
>>GAINOR: OK.
Can you hear breathing,
how you're working harder?
>>LAUREN: Yeah.
And I feel it in my abs, yeah.
>>GAINOR: You feel
it in your abs.
They've been working,
and you've got
a little shortness
of breath going on.
>>LAUREN: Definitely.
>>GAINOR: OK.
So this would complement
you the runner
and prevent angels
wings in the future.
>>LAUREN: That's good.
>>GAINOR: OK?
>>LAUREN: All right.
>>GAINOR: Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: So you're not saying
that this supplants exercise,
but more that it
complements exercise?
>>GAINOR: It
complements exercise.
But you look at
my mother, all she
got was the geriatric shuffle.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GAINOR: OK?
Now she got oscillation, right,
left, right, left, right, left.
>>REGINA: So it's a fabulous
place for someone sedentary
to kind of get up and start
getting their body back
into motion again.
>>GAINOR: Right.
Putting it in motion,
increase the circulation,
keep the blood vessels
flexible, reset the circuits
to the brain.
And if there's no other
benefits, who cares?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Who cares.
So Brock works out an hour
a day sometimes an hour
and a half a day.
So realistically,
if you're doing this
and you're working
out, does that cut down
the amount you need to work
out, or do people just kind of
add it in, or what do they do?
>>GAINOR: I ask
the question: who
needs to work out an
hour and a half a day?
>>REGINA: Well, I mean no.
We saw him stressing
after a couple of minutes.
So if he'd done a 15-minute
workout very pointedly working
with the plank position and
some of the other things
you were showing us
on camera, would that
be adequate for most people
to stay in pretty good shape?
>>GAINOR: It depends
on what they want.
OK?
It's like all the
literature says
you should only use this for
10 minutes three times a day,
and I'm going, why
would you say that?
Where in the
literature does it say
you can only go to the gym for
half hour, three times a week?
>>REGINA: Why do they say that?
I mean, is there some
damage than can occur?
>>GAINOR: I've got no idea.
>>REGINA: Why is the
manufacturer saying that?
>>GAINOR: Well,
everybody says that.
The whole industry says that.
And I don't understand why
because there isn't limits
on going to the gym, but--
>>REGINA: Can you shake
yourself too much?
>>GAINOR: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: Can you have
detrimental effects?
>>GAINOR: Well, I'll
give you an example.
I had a lady come to see
me who was on dialysis.
She's 70 years old.
And she saw the
benefits of the machine,
and she'd driven three
hours to see the demo.
I put the machine in her car.
I said, don't even try
to get it out yourself.
Have a man do it.
Have him put it
together, and then
use it for two to three
minutes once a day for a week,
twice a day for a week,
three times a day for a week,
four times a day for a week.
Gradually build up.
And so I got a phone call
from her about 10 days,
two weeks later.
She says, yeah.
I'm so excited.
I got the machine together.
It was yesterday.
I finally found a guy to do
it, and he put it together,
and I was on it for 10
minutes, and it felt so good,
and I'm just so excited.
Thank you very much.
Then she's-- now
I've got a question.
Why can't I get
out of bed today?
And I said, what part
of two to three minutes
did you not understand.
>>REGINA: --did you not hear?
>>GAINOR: She was in
bed for three days,
but she knew that
she had overdone it.
But when you're
standing on it, you
don't think you're overdoing it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because it doesn't feel
uncomfortable or anything.
>>GAINOR: I mean, there's times
after I've been doing a demo,
like if I'm doing a demo
at a health food store
or at a ZAAZ Studio
where I'm doing
a demo for multiple
hours, sometimes 2:00
or 3:00 in the
morning, I wake up
and I go, oh, my stomach hurts.
What did I eat?
>>REGINA: You
engaged your muscles.
>>GAINOR: Oh.
It wasn't what I
ate, I overdid it.
>>REGINA: We're going to talk
about the technology itself
in a little bit.
We have only really
a few minutes left.
But I want you to
share the story
you shared with me yesterday
about the little boy who
was exposed to it.
He was autistic,
>>GAINOR: ADHD or
autistic borderline,
was having trouble in
school, and I showed him
how to do the machine, and
then I took some things
from educational
kinesiology on how
to do the acupuncture
points in the ear lobes
and to cross pattern.
We talked with Brock about
the cross patterning,
and that's what isn't
happening from my understanding
as the holistic practitioner
in that ADD autistic community
isn't happening.
I put him on the machine
and talked to him
for eight minutes.
>>REGINA: Just kind
of distracting him.
Telling him what to do?
>>GAINOR: No.
I was lecturing
him on what to do--
>>REGINA: Lecturing.
OK.
>>GAINOR: --the whole time.
And when I turned him, I
would physically turn him.
And as I did so, I
walked around the machine
so that I would keep
eye contact with him.
And his mother had not
seen that with him before.
She had not seen him
keep eye contact.
So she was impressed with that.
But she phoned me
up six months later.
She's says, Ian,
he's 13 years old.
He was reading at
age 5 and 1/2 level--
>>REGINA: When
you first met him.
>>GAINOR: --when
I first met him.
We put him on the machine.
I gave him the
assignment of doing it
before school, at lunch
time, and after school,
and before bed.
He followed through on that.
His reading skills went from
age 5 and 1/2 to age 14.
His attention span
expanded exponentially.
He was asking for serious books.
He wasn't disrupting
his classes.
His grades went from D's
and C's to B's, a few A's.
The principal was phoning
her up and saying,
whatever you're
doing, keep it up.
We love it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GAINOR: OK.
That's a life-changing
event, and I've
had ADD therapists
see the benefits.
They just get the benefits
for that right away.
>>REGINA: Sure Yeah.
Very cool.
Well, OK.
So we're looking
at this technology,
and I'm so impressed
with just the bits I've
seen in my own
private life, and then
what I saw you do here today as
well with Lauren and with Brock
and just learning more about the
potentials on a healing level
alone even though we're
not talking about it.
We're not diagnosing anything.
There's no medical
advice happening here.
There's our disclaimer.
That's out of the way.
But these technologies, there
are a lot of these devices
out there, and so what's
a general hallmark
if someone wants to go-- well,
if they want to go do this one,
you need to go to a ZAAZ Studio.
But they're only
in about 10 cities
right now as I understand.
>>GAINOR: They're growing.
>>REGINA: They're growing.
So if you can't
find a ZAAZ Studio
and you decide you
want to try to buy
one of these types of devices,
what are the hallmarks
you need to look for,
because people go on the net
and start searching under it.
What is the name of this
type of device in general?
Is that the-- what
you said before?
>>GAINOR: Oscillation.
>>REGINA: Oscillation device.
>>GAINOR: Right.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what is it they
need to look for that's
going to work versus
one that might jar you.
I know they're some that--
they get more complaints
because people are
getting jarred.
>>GAINOR: Right.
And the linear ones
go to disruption
like we did with Brock.
And they're for fitness, and
they're for big, strong people.
>>REGINA: When you
say linear, you're
talking about an
up-and-down motion?
>>GAINOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GAINOR: And the oscillation,
I would put all of my patients
on that.
There's all kinds
of provisos warning.
You can't go on if
you've got a pacemaker.
Well, I've had medical doctors
as patients see that it's not
going to stress their
pacemaker, and they go, oh.
I can do that.
And it takes a lot to get
past their defenses on that
because they're
nervous about it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>GAINOR: They're nervous
about named conditions.
I don't go into
named conditions.
If you can walk, you can go
on the oscillation machine,
start slowly, two
to three minutes,
and I've had many
people overdo it,
and when they cut back and
start again, it's real easy.
>>REGINA: That's one
thing my friend said.
Now, she's very fit, the one
that turned me onto it, Susan.
She works out a lot.
She does a lot of hiking
and running and yoga
and weights and everything.
So she went on at the highest
speed for a long time, I mean,
right off the bat.
And she said, it
she said it was kind
of irritating her
bladder a little bit,
so then she had
to back off on it.
So that said, you
don't want to do that.
But she backed off.
As soon as she backed
off on the speed of it,
she said it was fine.
It was just an irritation
from overdoing it.
So that's the key.
Don't overdo it.
You want something
that oscillates
rather than like this
unless you're already
fairly fit athlete.
You don't want that
up-and-down motion so much.
Right?
>>GAINOR: Right.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GAINOR: And something I've
seen with young 20 somethings,
they get on the machine
and all of a sudden they're
itchy and sore.
That's OK.
They haven't done
anything for a long time.
Do it for two to three
minutes, once a day for a week,
twice a day.
And get past that.
>>REGINA: And move
those fluids around.
Very good.
Well, we are out of time.
This was so fun.
>>GAINOR: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I really appreciate
your coming and having
the device brought
here for us too.
I know everybody
wants to get on it
now as soon as we go off camera.
So to find out more about
the Whole Body Vibration
technology, just go to the
website zaazstudios.com,
that's Z-A-A-Z studios.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]